README.md, before:

# 320-ISO-Project-Fall22
Full stack web application for reporting on bulk LMP datasets across different scnenarios and nodes


### Notes for Installation and Use
In order to install and use our application, make sure to have npm installed and have downloaded the `.env`  file in the deliverables. (`.env` not included here for security)

## Installation 
Clone the GitHub repository using the following command

	git clone https://github.com/hiimlo/320-ISO-Project-Fall22.git

1. Once the project is cloned, navigate to its directory on your local machine. Paste the `.env` file into the root of the cloned directory (i.e. `/320-ISO-Project-Fall22`).
2. From the same directory, run the command `npm i --force`



## Running the Application
1. `npm start`
2. enjoy! Ctrl-C in the command line to stop.

### Data Loading
The app will make GET requests to the database defined by the `DB_URI` property in your `.env` file (the database provided is already populated). If you wish to plug in your own data, simply replace the csv files in `backend/dummy-data` with new csv files that have the same column names. Then, run `backend/dataloading_script.py` to run a script that loads in all the new data from the csv into the mongo database. 

### Modular Backend
This application uses its own database. If for some reason a new database is desired, as long as API calls can be made following the api contract in docs, a new backend can be swapped in by replacing the backend folder and updating the startup script in package.json

## About
This project was a joint collaboration between ISO New Engand and students of CS320 at UMass. See the documentation pdf for contact details and more info.


## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

add requirements.txt, update readme

README.md, after:

# 320-ISO-Project-Fall22
Full stack web application for reporting on bulk LMP datasets across different scnenarios and nodes


### Notes for Installation and Use
In order to install and use our application, make sure to have npm installed and have downloaded the `.env`  file in the deliverables. (`.env` not included here for security)

## Installation 
Clone the GitHub repository using the following command

	git clone https://github.com/hiimlo/320-ISO-Project-Fall22.git

1. Once the project is cloned, navigate to its directory on your local machine. Paste the provided `.env` file into the root of the cloned directory (i.e. `/320-ISO-Project-Fall22`). This file should already be in `.gitignore`
2. From the same directory, run the command `npm i --force` to install JS packages
3. From the same directory, run the command `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install python packages



## Running the Application
1. `npm start`
2. enjoy! Ctrl-C in the command line to stop.

### Data Loading
The app will make GET requests to the database defined by the `DB_URI` property in your `.env` file (the database provided is already populated). If you wish to plug in your own data, simply replace the csv files in `backend/dummy-data` with new csv files that have the same column names. Then, run `backend/dataloading_script.py` to run a script that loads in all the new data from the csv into the mongo database. 

### Modular Backend
This application uses its own database. If for some reason a new database is desired, as long as API calls can be made following the api contract in docs, a new backend can be swapped in by replacing the backend folder and updating the startup script in package.json

## About
This project was a joint collaboration between ISO New Engand and students of CS320 at UMass. See the documentation pdf for contact details and more info.


## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
